Bring yeast, flour and sugar (or maple syrup) to room temperature. Generally keep all of these out of the fridge an hour before making dough.
Firstly pour half cup luke warm water to a large mixing bowl. Dip your finger in the water to check if it is just warm and not hot. Hot water will kill the yeast and won't let the pizza dough rise.                                           An ideal temperature of water is 40 to 43 C 105 to 110 F. If you live in a very cold place, just warm up your bowl first.Next pour warm water.
Add 1 teaspoon yeast (3 grams) to the warm water.You can use instant yeast or active yeast. If you prefer to go with low yeast and let it rise slowly, then add only 1/3 teaspoon yeast (1 gram).
Add 1 teaspoon raw sugar or maple syrup. Avoid using refined white sugar.
Stir it gently. Allow this t rest undisturbed for 10 to 12 minutes.
The mixture must turn frothy and bubbly. With instant yeast it won't turn very frothy but will still froth to a minimum and you can see the yeast bubbling up.                                                                                   If you fail to get a frothy mixture, do not proceed further with this yeast. It is inactive. So just discard this. Start again with fresh warm water,  yeast and sugar. Repeat the steps from 1 to 4.
When the yeast turns frothy, add 2 1/2 cups flour (300 grams), 1/3 teaspoon salt and 1 1/2 tablespoon olive oil to the mixing bowl. Here I have used organic unbleached all-purpose flour. You can also use 1 cup all-purpose flour and 1 1/2 cup fine wheat flour.
Mix all of them to form a dough. You will need more water (about 2 to 3 tbsps) so add accordingly a little at a time until it forms a smooth and is sticky then you may sprinkle some flour.
Knead the dough for 5 mins. Use the heel of your hand to press down the dough against the kitchen counter/worktop and roll the pizza dough across. Next fold it. Repeat this for a 4 to 5 minutes. At the end pizza dough should be soft and when you poke it with your finger, it should dent and bounce back slowly. This is the indication of the dough being ready.
Shape it to form a ball and apply a thin layer of oil to prevent the dough from drying up. Also grease your bowl with some oil.
Cover the bowl with a moist napkin or lid. Rest at room temperature until the dough rises and doubles in size. An ideal temperature for rises and doubles in size. An ideal temperature for rising dough is 26 C (80 F) to 32 C (90 F).           Depending on the temperature, the dough may take anywhere from 1 to 4 hours. I advise not to go by timings but let it double in size.                                                                                                          With low yeast, I let it proof for about 8 hours near the window avoiding direct sun. During colder days, leave it overnight in a warm place.                                                                                               If you live in a cold country, then you can proof the dough in the instant pot with yogurt settings (LOW).
To begin with puree 400 to 500 grams of tomatoes in a blender. Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons oil in a pan and add 2 finely chopped garlic cloves (about a tablespoon). Fry the garlic a bit until a nice aroma comes out for a minute. Then add 1 teaspoon red chilli flakes.
Pour the tomato puree. Add 1/4 teaspoon salt and 1 teaspoon sugar. Give a good stir.
Coverthe pot partially and simmer until the tomatoes cook down and reduce to a thick consistency. Be careful at this stage as the puree splashes a lot. Occasionally reduce the flame and give a good mix.
When the mixture thickens to a sauce like consistency, add 1 teaspoon Italian herbs and 1/2 teaspoon crushed pepper. Taste test this and add more herbs, pepper or salt as needed.
The consistency of the sauce has to be thick and of spreading consistency. It should not be runny othrwise the pizza will be soggy and wet beneath the cheese. Cool this completely and transfer to a jar if using it later.
When you are ready to make the pizza, prepare the veggies and grate the cheese. We prefer only onions, lot of bell peppers, mushrooms and olives. You can use whatever veggies you prefer.                                                  Keep the veggies at room temperature for a few hours so they don't let out moisture on the pizza making it soggy. If using bottled olives drain them to a smaller strainer.
And your pizza is ready.